>> Evgenii Ray: So I'm going to open
this example in the full screen
just to give you the idea
what we're trying to build.
So imagine the mark dominator
where you can replace the content
with some elements.
So for instance, I want to replace
this element with a heading.
So the idea is to build such very simple
examples of the market dominating to
support h1 and h2 tag.
So if it's h1 because I have a normalizer,
it will have the same styles.
But if we check the example,
we'll see that there is a h1 and
h3 and as you can see,
we can edit the direct
content of the html element.
So this is done through the content
editable true attribute.
So if you have good examples of
such capabilities and notion app,
they heavily rely on such type of editing.
So let's get back to the exercise.
So first, let me read it,
felt from the full screen and go back.
So we're going to utilize the same
example that we use before but we will
add the content editable attribute to
the section where we place the body text.
And we're going to create
the mutation observer and
trick all the subtree changes and
the checked data so
we can verify that we actually use the h3,
or h2, or h1 tag.
Then we implement the callback for
mutation observer, and
when we type, we need to validate
that the text that we typed matches
the tag to relace the content and
when then we will need to replace that.
Make sure you're using the single
observer for all rendered cards.
Yep, and let's jump to exercise.
Here's the branch name to start your work.
Let's get back to the code.
We have the same file in the index html
file so that our template is here.
But the create card element
function now is in the utils.js, so
we don't need to pay attention to that and
also use the same Moog db.
And here we listed all the supported
elements that we want to track h2,
h2, and h3.
That is also function called
Get Heading that is very simple.
It just it checks the text
content of the element and
then creates the specific html element.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
let's get back to our index html now.
And here we need to initiate
our mutation observer.
And once we implemented the callback,
we need to register that
when we create the cart before
we append them on the screen.
So let's do that.
So first of all the mutation observer
accepts the mutation entries.
So let's call it entries.
Now we need to look for
the mutation entries.
>> Evgenii Ray: And so what we need to
access, we need to get the target element.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
when we got our target element,
we also need now to
filter out the mutation.
So we are looking for
the charted data type of mutation, and
now we also want to check that,
the target.textContent.
>> Evgenii Ray: That the element
matches the following tech.
So we can verify that by
using this supported element,
then we can have the has
that will verify that
the textContent matches any
element in a collection.
And if it does,
then we are going to replace,
we are going to create a new heading and
use the getHeading method and
pass our target node.
Okay, so now we have our heading method,
we can now replace the target element
using the method called replace with.
So it basically replaces the target
with a new heading element.
And now we also want to focus
on the newly created element.
So now the mutation observer
is implemented, but
we still need to track the elements.
So here in the appendChild, what
are we're gonna use is, we're gonna use
the mutation observer, observe, and then
our card element and the configuration.
We're gonna use the subtree
property to verify that.
We do the deep check and
the character data to true.
The rest will be false.
>> Evgenii Ray: And if we open the,
the last thing that we forgot
is we need to add the content
editable property to
the section here to let
the user edit the content.
Okay, now if we run this example,
now the content should be editable.
And if we replace the tag with h3,
we see that now the heading popped up.
Okay, so
this was the mutation observer exercise.
And here is the summary.
So we created a mutation observer,
accessed the target and
a type of mutation,
checked that the type is charged data.
Check that the text content
contains the specific set of
characters we're looking for.
Generate the heading element and
replace it with a new element, yep.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a possibility
of infinite recursion here where you're
changing the target element and
then it causes the mutation to fire again?
>> Evgenii Ray: Yes.
So you need to be careful
how you change that.
So here, we do not check.
We check only the character data mutation.
It's basically when you type.
But because we insert the element and
we update the element
before we insert the data,
the recursion is not happening.
>> Speaker 2: On a personal note, we use
Google's CAPTCHA and the only way that we
could detect that certain things were
loaded was with the mutation observer
because it was like they keep the third
party APIs, in a sandbox or whatever.
And it's just like the only way to know if
this dom was changed was with
that API is interesting.
>> Evgenii Ray: You could potentially
do the interval where you traverse
the specific dom and looking for
a sort an element, but
it would be much slower
than the Mutation observer.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, and this way we were
able to see is this element changed and
if so, okay, then run our code.
It was much more efficient.
So it's good API.
>> Evgenii Ray: Any more questions
before we jump to the next section?
>> Speaker 2: Someone else's said they use
mutation observer in a chrome extension to
make sure that the extension stays in sync
with the rest of the web page that it was
modifying.
>> Evgenii Ray: I think the grammarly,
the popular exception for
checking the grammar also
use the mutation observer.
They basically check what
you enter on the data,
but such extension may reduce
your website performance.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah for sure.
>> Evgenii Ray: On the callbacks.